# Auto-generated Genny Tasks

> [!WARNING]  
> These tests are currently in the process of being migrated to 
> [DSI](https://github.com/10gen/dsi/tree/master/evergreen/system_perf),
> where they will no longer be generated by automatic task generation.
>
> You can determine if your branch still uses this file by examining
> the include for genny_tasks.yml [here](https://github.com/10gen/mongo/blob/master/etc/system_perf.yml#L24)
> for your branch in the Mongo repository.
>
> For new genny task variants that do not need to be backported to 
> older branches, it is sufficient to add the branches to DSI.

This folder contains the task defintions and buildvariant assignments for the
Genny workloads with `AutoRun` sections. These files are automatically
generated and should never be updated manually.

## Patch-testing a new Genny Workload

If you are patch testing a new test, you need to regenerate the files and run
the patch with `--include-modules` as follows:

```bash
# In the Genny repository
./run-genny auto-tasks-local

# In the mongo repository
evergreen patch -p sys-perf -u --include-modules
```

Make sure to specify the path to your local Genny repository when the second
command asks for it. Evergreen also caches this setting in your
`~/.evergreen.yml` config

## Adding a new Variant in DSI

If you are adding a new variant in DSI, you need to create a companion PR in
the Genny repo that updates the task definitions so that the Genny `AutoRun`
tasks are scheduled on it.

For this companion PR, run the following command:

```bash
# In the Genny repository
./run-genny auto-tasks-local
```

Then commit the changes to the auto-generated files in `evergreen/sys-perf`.

## Branching the Mongo Repository

If you're creating a new branch in the mongo repository, perform the following steps: 

1. Follow the [steps for branching](https://github.com/10gen/dsi/blob/master/evergreen/system_perf/README.md) in the DSI repository
2. Update the [auto_tasks_local.py](../../src/lamplib/src/genny/tasks/auto_tasks_local.py) PROJECT_FILES variable to include a reference to the newly created branch in the DSI repository
3. Run `./run-genny auto-tasks-local`
4. You should see a newly created folder in `evergreen/system_perf` for the new branch.

Please reach out in the `#ask-devprod-performance` channel if you run into problems or have any questions.