examples/README.md, before:

Examples
========

This directory contains a number of example workloads. They all
run. The subdirectory future contains example workloads that use
features not fully operational yet, or don't exist yet.

A Tour
---------
These examples are all trivial workloads that illustrate different concepts or functionality
supported by the tool.

- [sample1.yml](sample1.yml): Five node example. Inserts a document of
  one form, sleeps for a second, and
  then randomly chooses between inserting a document of a different
  form, or doing a query. Here's an
  [image of the sample1 graph](images/sample1.png), along with sample
  [console output](sample1.output.txt) and
  [results file](sample1.results.json). The sample output traces the
  execution of the workload, and then prints statistics out. The
  statistics are available in a structured form in the results file.
- [sample2.yml](sample2.yml): Extension of sample1 with the addition of an absorbing
  state. Here's an [image of the sample2 graph](images/sample2.png)
- [sample1+threads.yml](sample1+threads.yml): An extension to sample1.yml to run 10 threads
  of execution instead of 1.
- [operations.yml](operations.yml): This file demonstrates many of the
  supported operations, in a list (not exhaustive). It executes each operation once
- [workloadNode.yml](workloadNode.yml): This is a simple example showing that a workload
  can be embedded within another workload. The example has a trivial
  workload, but any workload could be embedded.
- [forN.yml](forN.yml): This demonstrates a simple loop that executes an
  insert_one operation 5 times. Note that a workload node can be the
  embedded node using the workloadNode from the previous example.
- [spawn.yml](spawn.yml): Demonstrates spawning new threads of
  execution. A thread is started for each node in spawn, and the
  current thread continues to its next state. 
- [doAll.yml](doAll.yml): Demonstrates simple fork join behavior. A thread is
  started for each childNode, and they execute in parallel until they
  get to the join node. Here's an [image of the doAll.yml graph](images/doAll.png)
- [ifNode.yml](ifNode.yml): Demonstrates simple ifNode behavior. It
  contains two ifNodes. The first evaluates true, and the second
  false. Here's an [image of the ifNode graph](images/ifNode.png)
- [override.yml](override.yml): We can change values in documents. Increment, random
  int, random string, date.

Commit message:

Changed ForN to run normal node, and continue running next nodes until they hit finish. Previously forN node had an embedded node definititon, and ignored the next node.

examples/README.md, after:

Examples
========

This directory contains a number of example workloads. They all
run. The subdirectory future contains example workloads that use
features not fully operational yet, or don't exist yet.

A Tour
---------
These examples are all trivial workloads that illustrate different concepts or functionality
supported by the tool.

- [sample1.yml](sample1.yml): Five node example. Inserts a document of
  one form, sleeps for a second, and
  then randomly chooses between inserting a document of a different
  form, or doing a query. Here's an
  [image of the sample1 graph](images/sample1.png), along with sample
  [console output](sample1.output.txt) and
  [results file](sample1.results.json). The sample output traces the
  execution of the workload, and then prints statistics out. The
  statistics are available in a structured form in the results file.
- [sample2.yml](sample2.yml): Extension of sample1 with the addition of an absorbing
  state. Here's an [image of the sample2 graph](images/sample2.png)
- [sample1+threads.yml](sample1+threads.yml): An extension to sample1.yml to run 10 threads
  of execution instead of 1.
- [operations.yml](operations.yml): This file demonstrates many of the
  supported operations, in a list (not exhaustive). It executes each operation once
- [workloadNode.yml](workloadNode.yml): This is a simple example showing that a workload
  can be embedded within another workload. The example has a trivial
  workload, but any workload could be embedded.
- [forN.yml](forN.yml): This demonstrates a simple loop that executes
  a sequence of two insert_one operations 5 times. Note that a
  workload node could be used and called multiple times also.
- [spawn.yml](spawn.yml): Demonstrates spawning new threads of
  execution. A thread is started for each node in spawn, and the
  current thread continues to its next state.
- [doAll.yml](doAll.yml): Demonstrates simple fork join behavior. A thread is
  started for each childNode, and they execute in parallel until they
  get to the join node. Here's an [image of the doAll.yml graph](images/doAll.png)
- [ifNode.yml](ifNode.yml): Demonstrates simple ifNode behavior. It
  contains two ifNodes. The first evaluates true, and the second
  false. Here's an [image of the ifNode graph](images/ifNode.png)
- [override.yml](override.yml): We can change values in documents. Increment, random
  int, random string, date.
