src/HitchhikersGuide.md, before:

# 🚀 Hitchhikers' Guide to the Genny Repo 🚀 {#mainpage}

## 🔰 Intro 🔰

This guide is meant to serve as a readme for anyone working in the Genny
Repo. This is not meant as a guide to use Genny as a tool - that is in
the README.md file in the parent directory. The Genny Repo has a lot of
different layers 🍰 to it, and before getting started it is useful to
know what part of it to work on. This guide should give you an overview
of where to get started!

## 📂 Where are all the files? 📂

Some of the main files that you will be working on are probably located
in `src/gennylib/include/gennylib`. The most common files among those
are `Orchestrator.hpp`, `PhaseLoop.hpp`, and `context.hpp`. The
respective .cpp files for `Orchestrator` and `context` are in
`src/gennylib/src`, while `PhaseLoop` has no corresponding PhaseLoop.cpp
file. To understand what kinds of 📈 metrics Genny outputs, read through
`metrics.hpp` and `operation.hpp`.

Another main component are the Actors. The Actors all live in
`src/cast_core/include/cast_core` for the `.hpp` files and in
`src/cast_core/src` for the `.cpp` files. We'll go into more detail
about them later.

## 📜 Walkthrough 📜

### 🚗 Default Driver 🚗

The Default Driver (`src/driver/src/DefaultDriver.cpp`) is what sets
everything up. Most of what you need to worry about is in the
`doRunLogic()` function. The Orchestrator object is created here along
with all of the Actors. Then a `WorkloadContext` (from `context.hpp`)
object is instantiated and the actors are run. The `runActor()` function
calls the `run()` member function for each actor. Finally, the function
writes the metrics out to the specified file and returns 0 or an error
code.

### 👷 Workload Context 👷

The WorkloadContext is defined in `context.hpp`. The `WorkloadContext`
object is the YAML workload file decomposed into different pieces. The
`Orchestrator` (which we'll get into later) and the metrics objects are
known to the `WorkloadContext`, and the main function is to create a few
different contexts. The `WorkloadContext` creates an `ActorContext` that
has the YAML node and a mapping of a `phaseNumber` to its respective
`PhaseContext`. The `PhaseContext` has the YAML node of the phase itself
and knowledge of its ActorContext.

The main member function used in these classes is `get()`. Look to
examples in context and other classes for examples. The second argument
in `<>` tells whether the arg is required (use `std::optional` if not).

#### 🌐 HelloWorld.yml example structure 🌐

This example is taken directly from the Workload.yml file.

```yaml
# this whole file is parsed into the WorkloadContext.
SchemaVersion: 2018-07-01 # Required constant
Actors: # each item in Actors becomes an ActorContext
- Name: HelloTest
  Type: HelloWorld
  Threads: 2
  Phases: # each item in Phases becomes a PhaseContext
  - Message: Hello Phase 0 🐳
    Duration: 20000 # Duration/Repeat are handled by PhaseLoop
    Repeat: 2
  - Message: Hello Phase 1 👬
    Repeat: 5
- Name: HelloTest2
  Type: HelloWorld
  Threads: 2
  Phases:
  - Message: Hello Phase 0 🐳
    Duration: 4
  - Message: Hello Phase 1 👬
    Repeat: 4
```

### 💃 General Actor Structure 💃

We'll look at the `HelloWorld` Actor for example. The producer is called
in the `DefaultDriver` before any of the initialization is done. Then
when the driver calls `run()` (actually calling `runActor()` which then
calls run), the actor iterates over its `PhaseLoop` using the
`PhaseLoop` iterator class. The outer loop splits the `_loop` object
into an `ActorPhase` (it actually creates an entry into `the` `_loop`
object for each thread that the YAML file specifies). The inner loop
iterates over the config and runs the specified operation for the actor
for as many times as `Repeat` or `Duration` specify it to run. If both
the `Repeat` and `Duration` keywords are specified, then it will run for
the longer of the two (e.g. `{ Duration: 2 seconds, Repeat: 1 }` the
Duration will win unless the single iteration takes longer than 2
seconds).

### Casts

The `Cast` keeps a set of `ActorProducer` objects that it exposes to the
`WorkloadContext`. Each `ActorProducer` is a stateful object that knows
a specific pattern for producing single `Actor` instances. It's
perfectly acceptable to have two different `ActorProducer` instances
that only differ in some preset constant value.

### ➰ `PhaseLoop` and `ActorPhase` ➰

The `PhaseLoop` class does two main things. It constructs the `PhaseMap`
object and defines the beginning and end of the `PhaseLoop` Iterator
class. The `PhaseLoop` object has a map that has one entry per Phase. So
if the YAML was the one in the example above, each of the 2 HelloWorld
Actor instances would have their own `PhaseLoop` instance which each
contain two `ActorPhase` instances, one for each Phase.

The `PhaseLoopIterator` class does a few interesting things. In each
iteration, it calls `awaitPhaseStart()` and `awaitPhaseEnd()` in the
`Orchestrator`. If the Phase is blocking (a `Repeat` or `Duration` are
specified), it calls `awaitPhaseStart()` and stays blocked, but if it is
not, then it calls `awaitPhaseEnd()` immediately and runs. In
`operator++()`, `awaitPhaseEnd()` is also called to signal that the
thread is a blocking thread.

The `ActorPhase` object is iterated over in the inner loop of each
Actor. The object is looped over for the number of times specified by
`Duration` or `Repeat`, and then is returned. The
`IterationCompletionCheck` object is passed as an argument to check
whether the actor is done iterating, and then the `PhaseLoopIterator`
object notifies the Orchestrator to step to the next Phase as described
above.

### 🎼 The `Orchestrator` 🎼

The `Orchestrator` class is used to walk all of the Actors to the next
Phase together, and to make sure that blocking threads finish before
other threads start their processes. The `Orchestrator` adds a token for
every thread that starts, and removes the token once the thread is
finished. When the token count is 0, it signals the end of the Phase.

### ⏱`Metrics` ⏱

Genny records metrics using the `metrics::Operation` type found in
`metrics.hpp` though the underlying implementation can be found in
`operation.hpp`. An instance of `metrics::Operation` can capture several
different data points about the operation it references.

#### Usage

In your actor class, declare a `metrics::Operation` member and
initialize it using the `ActorContext::operation()` method in the
actor's constructor.

```cpp
class MyActor {
    MyActor(ActorContext& context)
        : _insertOp{context.operation("Insert", MyActor::id())} {}

    metrics::Operation _insertOp;
};
```

You then use the `metrics::Operation` member in your actor's `run()`
method as follows.

```cpp
void InsertRemove::run() {
    for (auto&& config : _loop) {
        for (auto&& _ : config) {
            // Calling metrics::Operation::start() starts the timer for
            // how long the operation takes.
            auto ctx = this->_insertOp.start();

            // ... Do insert ...

            // You can increment a counter for how many documents were
            // inserted.
            ctx.addDocuments(1);

            // You can also increment a counter for how many bytes were
            // inserted.
            ctx.addBytes(document.view().length());

            // Calling metrics::OperationContext::success() marks that
            // the operation succeeded and stops the timer.
            ctx.success();
        }
    }
}
```

If you expect that your database operation may result in an exception,
then you can wrap everything in a try/catch block.

```cpp
auto ctx = this->_insertOp.start();
try {
    // ... Do insert ...

    ctx.success();
} catch (mongocxx::operation_exception& ex) {
    // You can increment a counter for how many write errors there were.
    ctx.addError(1);

    // Calling metrics::OperationContext::failure() marks that the
    // operation failed and stops the timer.
    ctx.failure();
}
```

You can also use `metrics::OperationContext::discard()` to abandon the
data points that were being collected for the operation.

One of `success()`, `failure()`, or `discard()` must be called before
the `metrics::OperationContext` instance goes out of scope. A warning
message will be logged if they aren't because not explicitly handling
any expected exceptions represents either a programmer error or
unexpected server behavior.

🔚 End 🔚

Commit message:

TIG-1834 Don't allow accidental empty phases (#258)

src/HitchhikersGuide.md, after:

# 🚀 Hitchhikers' Guide to the Genny Repo 🚀 {#mainpage}

## 🔰 Intro 🔰

This guide is meant to serve as a readme for anyone working in the Genny
Repo. This is not meant as a guide to use Genny as a tool - that is in
the README.md file in the parent directory. The Genny Repo has a lot of
different layers 🍰 to it, and before getting started it is useful to
know what part of it to work on. This guide should give you an overview
of where to get started!

## 📂 Where are all the files? 📂

Some of the main files that you will be working on are probably located
in `src/gennylib/include/gennylib`. The most common files among those
are `Orchestrator.hpp`, `PhaseLoop.hpp`, and `context.hpp`. The
respective .cpp files for `Orchestrator` and `context` are in
`src/gennylib/src`, while `PhaseLoop` has no corresponding PhaseLoop.cpp
file. To understand what kinds of 📈 metrics Genny outputs, read through
`metrics.hpp` and `operation.hpp`.

Another main component are the Actors. The Actors all live in
`src/cast_core/include/cast_core` for the `.hpp` files and in
`src/cast_core/src` for the `.cpp` files. We'll go into more detail
about them later.

## 📜 Walkthrough 📜

### 🚗 Default Driver 🚗

The Default Driver (`src/driver/src/DefaultDriver.cpp`) is what sets
everything up. Most of what you need to worry about is in the
`doRunLogic()` function. The Orchestrator object is created here along
with all of the Actors. Then a `WorkloadContext` (from `context.hpp`)
object is instantiated and the actors are run. The `runActor()` function
calls the `run()` member function for each actor. Finally, the function
writes the metrics out to the specified file and returns 0 or an error
code.

### 👷 Workload Context 👷

The WorkloadContext is defined in `context.hpp`. The `WorkloadContext`
object is the YAML workload file decomposed into different pieces. The
`Orchestrator` (which we'll get into later) and the metrics objects are
known to the `WorkloadContext`, and the main function is to create a few
different contexts. The `WorkloadContext` creates an `ActorContext` that
has the YAML node and a mapping of a `phaseNumber` to its respective
`PhaseContext`. The `PhaseContext` has the YAML node of the phase itself
and knowledge of its ActorContext.

The main member function used in these classes is `get()`. Look to
examples in context and other classes for examples. The second argument
in `<>` tells whether the arg is required (use `std::optional` if not).

#### 🌐 HelloWorld.yml example structure 🌐

This example is taken directly from the Workload.yml file.

```yaml
# this whole file is parsed into the WorkloadContext.
SchemaVersion: 2018-07-01 # Required constant
Actors: # each item in Actors becomes an ActorContext
- Name: HelloTest
  Type: HelloWorld
  Threads: 2
  Phases: # each item in Phases becomes a PhaseContext
  - Message: Hello Phase 0 🐳
    Duration: 20000 # Duration/Repeat are handled by PhaseLoop
    Repeat: 2
  - Message: Hello Phase 1 👬
    Repeat: 5
- Name: HelloTest2
  Type: HelloWorld
  Threads: 2
  Phases:
  - Message: Hello Phase 0 🐳
    Duration: 4
  - Message: Hello Phase 1 👬
    Repeat: 4
```

### 💃 General Actor Structure 💃

We'll look at the `HelloWorld` Actor for example. The producer is called
in the `DefaultDriver` before any of the initialization is done. Then
when the driver calls `run()` (actually calling `runActor()` which then
calls run), the actor iterates over its `PhaseLoop` using the
`PhaseLoop` iterator class. The outer loop splits the `_loop` object
into an `ActorPhase` (it actually creates an entry into `the` `_loop`
object for each thread that the YAML file specifies). The inner loop
iterates over the config and runs the specified operation for the actor
for as many times as `Repeat` or `Duration` specify it to run.

**Notes on Repeat, Duration, and Blocking**

If both the `Repeat` and `Duration` keywords are specified, then it will run for
the longer of the two (e.g. `{ Duration: 2 seconds, Repeat: 1 }` the
Duration will win unless the single iteration takes longer than 2
seconds).

If neither `Duration` nor `Repeat` is given for a `Phase` block,
the YAML must specify `Blocking: None` to prevent accidentally
causing an Actor to not run at all during a Phase. It is still possible
for all Actors to specify `Blocking:None` for a given Phase in which
case the number of iterations that all Actors will take in that Phase
is undefined (but in practice is either 0 or 1 depending on how fast
all the Actors call into the `Orchestrator` to say they're done blocking
in the current Phase.)

See extended discussion of how `Blocking` works in
`src/workloads/docs/HelloWorld-MultiplePhases.yml`.

### Casts

The `Cast` keeps a set of `ActorProducer` objects that it exposes to the
`WorkloadContext`. Each `ActorProducer` is a stateful object that knows
a specific pattern for producing single `Actor` instances. It's
perfectly acceptable to have two different `ActorProducer` instances
that only differ in some preset constant value.

### ➰ `PhaseLoop` and `ActorPhase` ➰

The `PhaseLoop` class does two main things. It constructs the `PhaseMap`
object and defines the beginning and end of the `PhaseLoop` Iterator
class. The `PhaseLoop` object has a map that has one entry per Phase. So
if the YAML was the one in the example above, each of the 2 HelloWorld
Actor instances would have their own `PhaseLoop` instance which each
contain two `ActorPhase` instances, one for each Phase.

The `PhaseLoopIterator` class does a few interesting things. In each
iteration, it calls `awaitPhaseStart()` and `awaitPhaseEnd()` in the
`Orchestrator`. If the Phase is blocking (a `Repeat` or `Duration` are
specified), it calls `awaitPhaseStart()` and stays blocked, but if it is
not, then it calls `awaitPhaseEnd()` immediately and runs. In
`operator++()`, `awaitPhaseEnd()` is also called to signal that the
thread is a blocking thread.

The `ActorPhase` object is iterated over in the inner loop of each
Actor. The object is looped over for the number of times specified by
`Duration` or `Repeat`, and then is returned. The
`IterationCompletionCheck` object is passed as an argument to check
whether the actor is done iterating, and then the `PhaseLoopIterator`
object notifies the Orchestrator to step to the next Phase as described
above.

### 🎼 The `Orchestrator` 🎼

The `Orchestrator` class is used to walk all of the Actors to the next
Phase together, and to make sure that blocking threads finish before
other threads start their processes. The `Orchestrator` adds a token for
every thread that starts, and removes the token once the thread is
finished. When the token count is 0, it signals the end of the Phase.

### ⏱`Metrics` ⏱

Genny records metrics using the `metrics::Operation` type found in
`metrics.hpp` though the underlying implementation can be found in
`operation.hpp`. An instance of `metrics::Operation` can capture several
different data points about the operation it references.

#### Usage

In your actor class, declare a `metrics::Operation` member and
initialize it using the `ActorContext::operation()` method in the
actor's constructor.

```cpp
class MyActor {
    MyActor(ActorContext& context)
        : _insertOp{context.operation("Insert", MyActor::id())} {}

    metrics::Operation _insertOp;
};
```

You then use the `metrics::Operation` member in your actor's `run()`
method as follows.

```cpp
void InsertRemove::run() {
    for (auto&& config : _loop) {
        for (auto&& _ : config) {
            // Calling metrics::Operation::start() starts the timer for
            // how long the operation takes.
            auto ctx = this->_insertOp.start();

            // ... Do insert ...

            // You can increment a counter for how many documents were
            // inserted.
            ctx.addDocuments(1);

            // You can also increment a counter for how many bytes were
            // inserted.
            ctx.addBytes(document.view().length());

            // Calling metrics::OperationContext::success() marks that
            // the operation succeeded and stops the timer.
            ctx.success();
        }
    }
}
```

If you expect that your database operation may result in an exception,
then you can wrap everything in a try/catch block.

```cpp
auto ctx = this->_insertOp.start();
try {
    // ... Do insert ...

    ctx.success();
} catch (mongocxx::operation_exception& ex) {
    // You can increment a counter for how many write errors there were.
    ctx.addError(1);

    // Calling metrics::OperationContext::failure() marks that the
    // operation failed and stops the timer.
    ctx.failure();
}
```

You can also use `metrics::OperationContext::discard()` to abandon the
data points that were being collected for the operation.

One of `success()`, `failure()`, or `discard()` must be called before
the `metrics::OperationContext` instance goes out of scope. A warning
message will be logged if they aren't because not explicitly handling
any expected exceptions represents either a programmer error or
unexpected server behavior.

🔚 End 🔚
